---
layout: post
title: My first hackNY: A Learning Experience
category: blogpost
---
*Check out ADI member Christian Moscardi's story of his experience as a newbie
developer at hackNY. Hope to see y'all there this weekend!*

I went to my first hackNY in the fall of 2011. I wasn't too serious about
it&mdash;I figured I'd go and check out what all the buzz was about. That said,
I was nervous, a bit uncomfortable, and certainly out of my element, when I
arrived. I stepped into the packed auditorium at the Courant Institute and saw
virtually every single person with a laptop out. Feeling uncool with mine in my
backpack, I sat down ASAP next to some coders who, due to black screens with
green text, looked *really hardcore* to me&mdash;and pulled out my Dell,
running Windows 7 at the time. My screen wasn't black&mdash;and while Linux was
on my radar, I had pretty much no idea that Windows and web development just
don't go that great together.

The API demos were a blur. I had taken 1004 at the time, and while I understood
at a high level what was going on and had even fiddled with HTTP, I had pretty
much no idea what was going on. Who was this "Jason" everybody was talking
about? Endpoints? API Keys? Yeah&mdash;definitely not old hat for me.

As the demos ended, I fortunately bumped into someone I recognized and started
chatting with him (*read*: I followed him because I had no idea where to go).
This turned out well, as he led me to the "Columbia room"&mdash;i.e. the place
where all the Columbia students had set up shop to begin working on projects.
Luckily for me, another upperclassman took me under his wing and let me listen
to his team's brainstorming. They ended up coming up with a cool concept, and I
felt really cool being able to contribute (at a very high level) to the
discussion.

Additionally, given my utter lack of web development knowledge (seriously,
aside from HTML/CSS we're talking nothing), hearing words like "Node.JS" thrown
out actually gave me great Google-fodder and things to do while I tried
to follow the discussion, which was quickly becoming more and more technical.
Within a couple of hours I headed out, but even doing nothing felt like I had
just opened a door into something completely new. I'm really grateful toward
that upperclassman for including me in his group&mdash;in general, I've been
amazed by how open and welcoming the community around HackNY is.

I picked up Rails over the winter, and came to that spring's hackNY with not
just more skills, but a couple of ideas. The first was the slightly half-baked
Poopsquare, which used Foursquare and specifically dealt with choice nearby
bathrooms. The other was something involving cats and dating. Incidentally, a
friend had a similar idea to the latter, and when we both realized this,
meowspace was born. It was a silly, dead simple site, but it was something, and
more important, we finished and demo'd (though I regret it, I have to admit
that I returned to Columbia that night). I remember being so invigorated when I
pushed that last bugfix to Heroku and we finally had a working site. The
feeling of accomplishment was absolutely awesome. We built this thing in a
night!

This Saturday, I'll be attending my third hackNY (I was abroad last semester).
I now know python. I can use an API. I can put up a website reasonably
quickly. This year, HackNY is at Columbia&mdash;home turf for me. I don't have
an idea yet, but something will be happening. More important, show up and make
something of your own happen!
